Project settings docs (#1661)
zeit/docs: pages/docs/v2/build-step.mdx

  title: 'Build Step',
  description: 'Providing ZEIT Now with a build step.',
  editUrl: 'pages/docs/v2/build-step.mdx',
  lastEdited: '2020-02-25T01:05:06.000Z'
}

> When you deploy on ZEIT Now, we **build** your project. For many frontend frameworks, we automatically configure the build settings, but you can also [customize](#customizing-build-settings) them. You can also use [environment variables](#using-environment-variables-and-secrets) to avoid hardcoding values.

Reviewer: What if we make the copy here say "the platform" instead of "we":

> When you deploy on ZEIT Now, the platform will **build** your project.

Author: @paulogdm thanks! Fixed on a73c0f6d

## Customizing Build Settings

> To customize build settings for your project, choose a project from the [dashboard](https://zeit.co/dashboard):

Reviewer: > To customize the build settings for your project

:point_up: Does this sound better?

Author: @paulogdm thanks, fixed on 2fd7df11

<Image
  src={`${process.env.ASSETS}/docs/common/select-project.png`}
  width={1102 / 2}
  height={410 / 2}
  shadow
/>
<Caption>Selecting the project from the ZEIT Dashboard.</Caption>

Then, select the **Settings** tab:

<Image
  src={`${process.env.ASSETS}/docs/common/select-settings.png`}
  width={626 / 2}
  height={340 / 2}
  shadow
  borderRadius
/>
<Caption>Selecting the <b>Settings</b> tab from the Project Overview page.</Caption>

> You can then edit build settings from the **Build & Development Settings** and **Root Directory** sections.

Reviewer: > You can then edit the build settings

Author: @paulogdm thanks, fixed on 2fd7df11

#### Framework Preset

<Image
  src={`${process.env.ASSETS}/docs/build-step/framework-preset.png`}
  width={1386 / 2}
  height={162 / 2}
  shadow
/>
<Caption>The Framework Preset setting.</Caption>

ZEIT Now detects the following frontend frameworks automatically and chooses the best default settings for you.

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
- [Gatsby](https://gatsbyjs.org/)
- [Hexo](https://hexo.io/)
- [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev/)
- [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/)
- [Preact](https://preactjs.com)
- [Ember](https://emberjs.com/)
- [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org)
- [Scully](https://github.com/scullyio/scully)
- [Angular](https://angular.io)
- [Polymer](https://www.polymer-project.org/)
- [Svelte](https://svelte.dev)
- [Ionic React](https://ionicframework.com)
- [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev)
- [Gridsome](https://gridsome.org/)
- [UmiJS](https://umijs.org)
- [Sapper](https://sapper.svelte.dev)
- [Saber](https://saber.land/)
- [Stencil](https://stenciljs.com/)
- [Nuxt.js](https://nuxtjs.org)
- [Hugo](https://gohugo.io)
- [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/)
- [Brunch](https://brunch.io/)

> - [Middleman](https://middlemanapp.com/)

Author: This should not be hardcoded.

Reviewer 2: Indeed! `https://zeit.co/api/v1/frameworks`

> If no framework is detected, it will be specified as "Other".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If no framework is detected, "Other" will be selected for you.
```

You can always choose a different framework preset or "Other" if you’d like.

#### Build Command

<Image
  src={`${process.env.ASSETS}/docs/build-step/build-command.png`}
  width={1386 / 2}
  height={114 / 2}
  shadow
/>
<Caption>The Build Command setting.</Caption>

If ZEIT Now detects a framework, the build command will automatically be configured. Depending on a framework, the build command can refer to the project’s configuration file.

For example, if you choose [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/), here’s what happens by default:

- If `package.json` contains the `build` command in `scripts`, this command will be used to build the project.
- If not, `next build` will be the build command.

If you’d like to override the build command, you can turn on the **Override** toggle and specify the command.

<Note>

>   If you update this setting, it will be applied starting from your next

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If you update this setting, it will be applied starting with your next
```

  deployment.
</Note>

**If build is not required**: Some projects do not require building. An example of this would be a website with basic HTML/CSS/JS/assets that can be deployed directly without building (For example, you might just have a single `index.html` file).

In such cases, you should:

- Specify "Other" as the framework preset, and
- Override the build command and leave it empty. This will make ZEIT Now to skip the build step.

#### Output Directory

<Image
  src={`${process.env.ASSETS}/docs/build-step/output-directory.png`}
  width={1386 / 2}
  height={114 / 2}
  shadow
/>
<Caption>The Output Directory setting.</Caption>

After building a project, most frameworks will output the result in a directory. Contents in this **output directory** will be the only things that will be statically served by ZEIT Now.

If ZEIT Now detects a framework, the output directory will automatically be configured.

<Note>

>   If you update this setting, it will be applied starting from your next

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If you update this setting, it will be applied starting with your next
```

- If the development command is not specified, `now dev` will fail. If you selected "Other" as the framework preset, the development command will be empty by default.
- You must create a deployment and have your local project be linked to the project on ZEIT Now (using `now`). Otherwise, `now dev` won’t work correctly.

### Root Directory

<Image
  src={`${process.env.ASSETS}/docs/build-step/root-directory.png`}
  width={1242 / 2}
  height={242 / 2}
  shadow
/>
<Caption>The Root Directory setting.</Caption>

In some projects, the top-level directory of the repository may not be the root directory of the app you’d like to build. For example, your repository might have a `frontend` directory, which contains a stand-alone [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) app.

In cases like this, you can specify the project root directory. If you do so, please note the following:

- If you specify a root directory, then your app won’t be able to access files outside of that directory. You also cannot use `..` to move up a level.
- This setting also applies to [Now CLI](/download). Instead of running `now <directory-name>` to deploy, specify `<directory-name>` here so you can just run `now`.

<Note>

>   If you update this setting, it will be applied starting from your next

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If you update this setting, it will be applied starting with your next
```
